---
layout: recap
title: Session 11
description: In which the players zoomed around a bit
characters: Blue, Nuel and Nova
---
(Most of the session was updating character sheets, waiting for Ethan and then making Ethan's new character, Nuel, an Utun Journalist)

Having just arrived in the Onassis system, the crew updated their ship databanks and received a message from the technician on Onassis Outpost, a small orbital station they had shot up the last time they were there. The message asked for the full cost of damages - which they gladly paid, before zipping off on to the next system.

They stopped briefly in Polyxena, docking at the large disc-like spaceport orbiting Devakov (rather than the partially-constructed XenaStation(TM) where they stopped last time). Wandering the station they met a Cudoxet tailor by the name of Naconet, who ran an army surplus store. Nova and Blue, who were looking for materials with which to improve Blue's armour, arranged for him to upgrade Blue's woven body armour, for a number of credits over the course of 3 days.

During this time, the crew hung about in the station and met Nuel, a GBC (Galactic Broadcasting Corporation) journalist, and two of the members of the Federation vessel flying him back from Xetralone Corporation space. They talked for a bit, got drunk, then stumbled through the fourth wall and decided to take Nuel with them to Rati (since they were dropping Kila off there anyway), as he wanted look for a scoop there.

The crew picked up Blue's new clothes and hopped off to Diecoon, using Diamond's Mercenary status to refuel at a military base on Polymele (the arid planet with the l o n g b o y e s). From here, they went on to Rati. They docked at the central planet-side spaceport in the centre of the capital on Thorgunnav. Kila left at the spaceport, then Nuel went off to visit the large temple of The Church of the Gilded Gods. He spoke briefly with Greyfriar Utash, who told him the basics of the Church's deal. Nova and Blue went off and, using Tak's merchant license, took a job carrying 3 crates of intricate cybernetics to Hanifa, the "capital" of the sector. 

We ended the session with the Comet Cruiser about to leave Rati, having picked up the crates from a downtown warehouse on Thorgunnav. 