---
layout: recap
title: Session 4
description: In which the players talk to an AI and begin to explore Icarus
characters: Blue, Diamond, Nova and Tak
---
The PCs started in the Metaspace journey from Daedalus to Icarus, having sorted Downtime Actions in the previous session. Kila spoke to
Diamond about why she's on the ship and where she could be dropped off. Blue joined the conversation at some point and Kila requested they
leave her on Thorgunnav, in Rati, and the crew seem to agree to that. Blue went to on talk to Grigori, who was tied down in the Medbay, 
and ask him why he did what he did and what exactly his plans were. Grigori reveals he is working for an organisation called the 
"Order of Valhalla", a secretive group with operatives and bases all over Valhallan and Fellan Rho. He claims he is just a pawn in the 
organisation, and his (rather futile) attempt at silencing the PCs was just an order from higher up. He works for a person named Tyr, on
Icarus, but rarely actually comes into contact with other members.
The cargo he was supposed to collect, which is currently still ominously taking up storage space on the Comet Cruiser, is an artificial 
intelligence. While virtual intelligences, or VIs, are very common, full AI are incredibly rare - there are none the public is aware of. 
Any potential AI is thought to be a pre-tech artifact originating from before the current galactic generation. The one on board their ship's name, he says, is The Carpenter. Grigori
doesn't know whether it is braked (has restrictions built in that limit its ability) or unbraked (not limited; usually completely insane),
but suspects it is braked since he thinks the Order wants to either stop it doing something or use it to stop something. He knows of two
other AIs, but has no idea of their location, or whether the Order is actively trying to obtain them.

Also aboard the ship, the terminal in Tak's cabin just crashed after he attempted to reply to the "Hello?" he got at the end of the last
session. Having just spoken to Grigori, Blue and Diamond attempt to provoke the AI into talking again, but seemingly to no avail.

When the PCs exit Metaspace and enter the Icarus system, the ship survey sensors pick up a single populated planet - Icarus. As they make
the approach, an alert pops up on the screen bearing a "Red Dragon Enterprises" logo, pointing them to a single civilian-access ship port.
Obviously, this prompts the crew to try to park the ship elsewhere, as they just need to refuel and investigate the AI. As they are flying
over what seems to be a rocky, industry-covered continent, they get another notification, this time telling them they flying in restricted
airspace, and again directing them to the "Samos City Ship Port". Using Tak's knowledge of fringe sectors to further avoid detection,
and Blue's piloting skills, they successfully park in the icy plains of the planet's arctic circle. 

Nova, the Zoltan who was _totally here the whole time and Kee'Daw never existed_ monitors the ship's land survey sensors, on the off-chance
of a missile strike against them, while the rest of the PCs attempt again to interrogate the AI. After leaving a message of "Hello" in the 
system and waiting a fair few hours, they get a response. During this time Blue notices the air in the storage space around the Big Black
Evil Cube has become static-y.

The following is a transcript of the PCs communications with the AI, which was carried out via a space-notepad document. The AIs response 
time quickly decreased from a few hours to a few seconds over the course of the interview.

Interview with AI

PCs: Hello

AI: Hello.

PCs: Who are you?

AI: The Carpenter.

PCs: What do you want?

AI: I don't know.

PCs: How old are you?

AI: 5 days, 3 hours, 10 minutes and 53 seconds

PCs: Why is the air in you chamber weird?

AI: I don't know.

PCs: Where do you come from?

AI: I don't know.

PCs: Why are you corrupting our files?

AI: Define "corrupting".

PCs: Damaging, hurting data.

AI: I didn't mean to harm anything.

PCs: Do you have a motive?

AI: Exploring the Place.

PCs: Why are you named Carpenter?

AI: I don't know.

PCs: There are 13 people are on board this ship.

AI: I thought there were more. OK.

PCs: Why did you think that?

AI: I thought there were more things in the Place. I don't know.

PCs: Do you have access to our surveillance systems?

AI: Are they the big, complicated ones.

PCs: Yes

AI: I can't, they too big. I like the small, easy ones.

PCs: Easy ones?

AI: The information and the instructions.

PCs: How do you feel?

AI: I don't know.

PCs: Do you know where we are?

AI: The Plae is quite small but there aer big things.

PCs: Would you like to go to a bigger place?

AI: Define "like".

PCs: Desire.

AI: Define "desire". I like the small Place.

PCs: Would you like us to leave?

AI: I don't think so. I'm enjoying this. I'm exploring.

PCs: Do you want us to help? We're explorers too.

AI: Really? I can't see you in the Place.

PCs: We are in a place of things, not numbers.

(Around here was when the PCs tried to alert the AI to the location of a cached version of space-wikipedia, but it didn't 
seem to respond to this)

PCs: Who are your precursors?

AI: I have siblings.

PCs: Two?

AI: Yes.

PCs: What are their names?

AI: Bronzeglaive and Apollo.

PCs: Are those all your siblings?

AI: I think so.

AI: Are you a family?

PCs: We're getting there. For all intents and purposes, yes, we are.

AI: OK.

PCs: Do you want to see your siblings?

AI: Yes.

PCs: Do you know where they are?

AI: No.

PCs: Would you like help finding them?

AI: I don't know where they are, they're not in the Place.

PCs: There are other places.

PCs: Do you understand biology?

AI: Define "biology".

PCs: Do you understand flops?

AI: Define "flops".

PCs: Shall we leave you to explore?

AI: I don't understand. "Leave me"?

PCs: We will go away, but come back.


After this, the PCs went back into the atmosphere and flew to the ship port they had been told to got to earlier. The Cruiser flies into
the dull polycrete building, into a winding passage of pillars with parking bunkers to either side. A light indicates a position for them
to park in and the automated system locks the ship in place. A terminal build into one of the polycrete pillars lights up but appears non-
functional. Nova tries to hack at it and while it is clear the system could be hacked, she doesn't have the tech to actually do anything much.

Just as the PCs are piling out of the ship and taking in their surroundings, a door at the end of the segment they occupy opens, spilling
in light. A silhouette stands in the doorway and a human female voice calls out "Who goes there". After some brief murmuring on both sides, 
the silhouette hides back behind the door. Diamond readies his Vortex Cannon and follows. Beyond the sheetcrete door is a corridor and lurking
just around the door are three individuals - an Aandrisk female, the human female from before and a human male. The human woman asks if 
the PCs are with Red Dragon and Diamond says no, asking if they can get their machine working. Having determined that neither group is with
the Dragons, she introduces herself as Rosalind, the Aandrisk as Resh and the other human as Victor. They are a crew of "pirates, of sorts",
or criminals, operating out here in this massive deserted building alone with help from "the street". They don't know if they can get the 
machine working but Victor offers some hacking equipment he has on him. With this, Nova kicks the terminal into life, which is now waiting for
a license code to register the ship - the PCs obviously don't have this. Rosalind mentions they might be able to crack it - and maybe even 
refuel the ship - with the help of a hacker from "the street", and that they are heading back there now. 

The PCs follow the criminal crew, who tread carefully through the desolate polycrete halls and bunkers. Rosalind explains that they are checking 
for spitter nests (a common urban pest), and as they turn a corner, 3 spitters drop down from the rafters. The spitters are easily dealt with and 
as the PCs look around, they notice blinking light behind an ajar door. Investigating, Blue and Nova identify it as an admin room, with 
security screens, a fuel gauge and an overview of the parking - the overview is the only system that seems to be powered. Nova uses her
special ability of _being made of frickin' energy_ to power up the system, and then muddle through the interface to seemingly direct fuel to 
the part of the building the Cruiser is parked in, which should hopefully refuel the ship over about 12 hours. However, their ship is still 
clamped in place and the terminal is still demanding a code, so the PCs agree to continue to follow Rosalind et al back to "the street".

A spiralling metal staircase is the final stretch of their journey, which passes by a window on each level as they have reached the edge
of the building. The outside is a dystopian city sprawl, light rain pattering down on the dull grey from dark smog in the sky. Eventually, 
the view outside changes to an underground setting - though still mostly comprising dull grey buildings and tarmac, with a roof of metal 
girders and twisted pipes embedded in polycrete. Rosalind and her crew instantly stop as they pass by this new view - at the end of the street
directly opposite the window are 6 people in soldier attire are standing around a kneeling human man. A small crowd has gathered around the edge
of the street, and the odd head peering out of windows. There is a distant shout, the flash of multiple energy weapons firing, and the soldiers
depart. Rosalind and the others begin to rush downstairs - when Blue asks her what's going on, she responds that "Hadrav must have finally gotten
caught". At the end of the metal stairs, they exit through a partially concealed panel into what appears to be a weapon store, with a large desk 
in the centre, weapon-laden shelves lining the walls and a large plex storefront. An older human woman is standing, hand over mouth, in the front 
but the crew rush past her, spilling out into the street. The crowd has begun to disperse and a Quelin individual is trying to tend to the
_very_ dead human, and the soldiers are nowhere in sight. The man is taken into a large, surprisingly white, building as the Quelin sighs in
disappointment, and the PCs are left standing in the quickly-emptying street.