---
layout: recap
title: Session 7
description: In which the crew starts trying to break Blue out of gulag
characters: Shadow, Diamond, Tak, Nova and Iktoc
---
The PCs started in Janssen's office, finishing off discussing the terms of the trade deal. They got some details on the location of the prison facility, and information on the guy they need to break out - a Lura member of the Steppe Union called Captain Keltran. They quickly left the building and made their way back to the Sanctum, Nova and Tak Retconning themselves into being, and headed to Rosalind's apartment. 

They spent a lot of the session here, planning this massive heist/military incursion. The general outline of the devised plan was: part of the crew snuck into the prison on a cargo ship, and the others flew the Comet Cruiser nearby without alerting the facility's attention. The stowaways then get the people in the ship - including the Carpenter, the AI - wireless access to the prison's systems, which are promptly deactivated/used to find Blue and Keltran. Then the PCs get the two captives and all run away very fast.

Also Diamond gets his Laser-Taser-Pistol back and Iktoc quits his job and Nova makes a bomb and the crew pick up Viktor who will hack some stuff at the prison.

While waiting for Janssen to obtain a forge ship license, the PCs do some downtime actions - mostly trying to learn skills.

The rest of the session was spent carrying out the beginning of the plan, sneaking down to the warehouse that the ship is loaded from (they got this information from a high criminal in the Sanctum), beating up a guard quickly along the way. 

By the end, Nova was flying the Comet Cruiser towards the SansheCorp Holding Facility and Shadow, Diamond, Tak and Iktoc are stowed away inside a storage container headed for the same place.