---
layout: post
title:  "Mandarinate News Exchange Update April 2nd 3225"
date: 2018-03-24
--- 

Addressed to: *Sir Mr Dr Beetle Esquire Plus™*, crewing on the *Annual Budgie*

### Headline: Wreckage of Mandate-era Battlecruiser Continues to Confound Experts
The wreckage is now known to be a large section of the hull of a Bruxelles-class Battlecruiser, although exactly how it managed to arrive in pieces in the middle of a barely-habited system is still completely unknown. The debris site in 305 is still experiencing significant influx of traffic, mostly scavenger ships, so reputable Citizens™ may want to  avoid it if possible. 

Some sources have indicated the possibility of a similar incident having occurred in 707, though official vessels have yet to return confirming any further details.

#### Successful Trade Deal Brokered with House Themiro
Diplomats and merchants from the Neo-panjava Mandarinate and the Miran House Themiro rejoice today (3225/03/18) as new legislation creates 5 official trade routes and the potential for many more.

#### Unrest on Karhowa Reaches Peak
Reports indicate severe damage to property on multiple industrial settlements belonging to Miran Houses. Due to the nature of the attacks, a local Ysoth tribe is suspected, though the Unified Ysoth Clans has condemned the actions and stated none of their member-states were involved.

#### Space Marines Stationed on Thuitr
Despite the unpopularity of the Delucien Order on Thuitr, Emperor Adegasus has ordered the movement of a platoon of marines planetside. The conditions of the diplomatic discussions between the Order and the current Thuitan government are still unknown, and the Order has provided no statement on this recent military decision.

<div class="ad">
<p class="dismiss">dismiss</p>
<h4>Advertisement</h4>
Applications for the Citizenship™ and Citizenship Plus™ tests are 50% off for the next 5 stellar months at our new Listoava offices in 303. Book now! Terms and conditions apply.
</div>
