---
layout: galaxy-article
title: The Lollika
author: Callum
---
The Lollika are a race of amphibious cephalopod people that originate from harsh ocean planets. Having evolved from previous cephalopods, they have a variety of subspecies but share a fair few things in common.

1. They all have bluish or greenish skin colours, though a small amount are able to change their colours for camouflage, the majority cannot.

2. Whilst humanoid, Lollika all have the distinctive tentacles upon their heads acting like a hair of sorts and all have an eel-like tail. They can have a minimum of four tentacles and a maximum of ten.

3. All Lollika have a diamond shape upon their forehead, this being an evolutionary dead end after previously being a light sensitive third eye. However, some of these are becoming smaller, indicating that some may lack them in the near future, due to their bodies not needing them anymore.

4. They all possess the power to quickly regenerate limbs, however as much as this is a gift, most will bleed out before a limb can grow back.

This race tends to stick to planets that are primarily water-based, though will not object to living upon the land depending on the climate. A majority of their cities rest under seas and few of them are designed for surface dwellers, though they have been open towards other races and allow them to settle on land-based cities without worry. Thanks to their preference towards ocean planets and knowledge of underwater settlements, Lollikan people have spread far without much bother.

Whilst being a technologically advanced race, the Lollika also worship the weather, primarily storms, they believe lightning is a bringer of fortune and might, their soldiers are almost always found wearing some sort of accessory featuring a bolt of lightning on it. Of course, other weathers mean different things, a cloudy day means calmness and and a day of rest. A sunny day is seen as a day of misfortune to the Lollika, but a day of fortune towards surface dwellers. Snow is a day of exploration and curiosity, many times have the Lollika waited for a snowy day before venturing out to find new places to settle. Hurricanes can mean two things, either a storm is coming and it is a day to be happy or the wind tells lies and is deceiving the people. Sandstorms lack a meaning, due to rarely being witnessed by the Lollika.

Whilst getting along with other races, the Lollika keep to their own ways and laws. As much as they understand other races or governments having their own rules, and will abide by these if found in those territories, they treat outsiders the same on their own planets. There is no leeway or accidents. Whilst a lot of rules are similar to outside ones; no murder, no thievery, etc. Certain things are also outlawed. The main thing most outsiders do by mistake is swim within the waters of a Lollikan planet without first being allowed to by that planet's high priest. In recent years Lollikan people have been allowed to be in relationships with outsiders on most planets, though it is frowned upon still and some planets still outlaw it, sometimes with death as the penalty.


**Lollika Subspecies**

Shallow Lollika: The most basic kinds of Lollika, with an average height of 5’06” these Lollika make up the bulk of their kind, they don’t have anything that special going for them other than the fact that they are just the regular Lollika.

Deep Sea Lollika: A taller and slimmer type of Lollika, they have an average height of 6’08”, bodies, tentacles and tails all thin, giving them a rather noodle-like look. They mostly stick to the oceans, due to their weak bodies and for other races are rare to see.

Giant Lollika: These are the brawny Lollika, naturally strong and large, if a bit slow when on land. They have an average height of 5’11” but the largest, Gran’Nui, stood at 7’09”. In their culture, the Giant Lollika are seen as the warriors that drive off the evil.

Flame Lollika: Said to be the blessed Lollika, they have the ability to glow in the dark with bioluminescence. They have an average height of 4’07” and tend to have small statures. Whilst the ability is proven to be a chemical reaction, a large portion of the Lollika still say it’s a gift. 

Chameleon Lollika: The rarest kind of Lollika, they possess the ability to change colour in the blink of an eye, though unless they require stealth, this tends to be used as a party trick in the modern day. The average height is 5’05” for them and they have a fairly average stature, being close to their Shallow cousins.

Vampire Lollika: These rare Lollika have a membrane connecting all their tentacles, allowing them to use it as a cloak of sorts. Whilst this doesn’t provide many benefits other than protecting the ones that remain swimming in the deep waters around possible predators, scientists are trying to find a way of making these “cloaks” armoured or weaponised. Vampire Lollika stand at 4’08” on average and are fairly small.
