---
layout: galaxy-article
title: Spacefaring and Sectors
author: Tom
---
In our version of Stars Without Number (the system lore is increasingly different), the known galaxy is split into sectors. These regions of space are connected via "Jump Gates" or "Wormhole Gates" - some of the most advanced postech in this galaxy. Jump Gates are large ringed constructs suspended in space that allow massive specialised freighter ships - capable of carrying numerous smaller vessels - to "jump" the incredible distances between sectors.

Jumping across sectors takes time - about 5 days, usually - but more than that, its expensive (due to the amount of energy required). The portion of the population that as ever jumped in their life is relatively small, indeed it is still not uncommon to have never left your birth planet or station. However, if your job relies upon it and you are supported by the Federation (many merchants, diplomats, mercenaries and soldiers will have jumped sectors once, maybe even twice or three times in their lives) or you are wealthy enough to fund the trip yourself, there is little to stop you.

Wormhole gates are operated by the Federation - even gates to fringe sectors, though these are often poorly maintained. 

Most planets and stations - indeed, most sectors - are under the authority of the Federation, though some are not: they may be fringe sectors/planets, run by themselves, or run by a different organisation (see: The Akordan Sovereignty and Xetralone Corporation). 

